statistics: add the updates of the new grammar (#6758)
pingcap/docs: statistics.md

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    ANALYZE TABLE TableNameList [WITH NUM BUCKETS|TOPN|CMSKETCH DEPTH|CMSKETCH WIDTH]|[WITH NUM SAMPLES|WITH FLOATNUM SAMPLERATE];
    ```

+ `WITH NUM BUCKETS` specifies the maximum number of buckets in the generated histogram.
+ `WITH NUM TOPN` specifies the maximum number of the generated `TOPN`s.
+ `WITH NUM CMSKETCH DEPTH` specifies the depth of the CM Sketch.
+ `WITH NUM CMSKETCH WIDTH` specifies the width of the CM Sketch.
+ `WITH NUM SAMPLES` specifies the number of samples.

> + `WITH FLOAT_NUM SAMPLERATE` specifies the rate of samples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ `WITH FLOAT_NUM SAMPLERATE` specifies the sampling rate.
```
由于下文中采样率均用“sampling rate”表达，在这里也进行了对应修改

> `WITH NUM SAMPLES` and `WITH FLOAT_NUM SAMPLERATE` corresponds to two different algorithms of sampling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`WITH NUM SAMPLES` and `WITH FLOAT_NUM SAMPLERATE` correspond to two different algorithms of sampling.
```

> - `WITH NUM SAMPLES` specifies the size of the sampling set, which is implemented in the reservoir sampling method in TiDB. When a table is large, it is not recommended to use this method to collect statistics. Because the intermediate result set of the reservoir sampling contains redundant results, it causes additional pressure on resources such as memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `WITH NUM SAMPLES` specifies the size of the sampling set, which is implemented in the reservoir sampling method in TiDB. When a table is large, it is not recommended to use this method to collect statistics. Because the intermediate result set of the reservoir sampling contains redundant results, and these results cause additional pressure on resources (such as memory).
```

> - `WITH FLOAT_NUM SAMPLERATE` is a sampling method introduced in v5.3.0. It is the parameter with the value range `(0, 1]` that specifies the sampling rate. It is implemented in the way of Bernoulli sampling in TiDB, which is more suitable for sampling larger tables and performs better in collection efficiency and resource usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `WITH FLOAT_NUM SAMPLERATE` is a sampling method introduced in v5.3.0. With the value range `(0, 1]`, this parameter specifies the sampling rate. The parameter is implemented in the Bernoulli sampling method in TiDB, which is more suitable for sampling larger tables and performs better in collection efficiency and resource usage.
```

Before v5.3.0, TiDB uses the reservoir sampling method to collect statistics. Since v5.3.0, the TiDB Version 2 statistics uses the Bernoulli sampling method to collect statistics by default. To re-use the reservoir sampling method, you can use the `WITH NUM SAMPLES` statement.

> **Note:**
>

> > The current sampling rate is calculated based on an adaptive algorithm. When you can observe the number of rows in a table using [`SHOW STATS_META`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-stats-meta.md), you can use this number of rows to calculate the sampling rate corresponding to 100,000 rows. If you cannot observe this number, you can use the `TABLE_KEYS` column of the [`TABLE_STORAGE_STATS`](/information-schema/information-schema-table-storage-stats.md) table as another reference to calculate the sampling rate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The current sampling rate is calculated based on an adaptive algorithm. When you can observe the number of rows in a table using [`SHOW STATS_META`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-stats-meta.md), you can use this number of rows to calculate the sampling rate corresponding to 100,000 rows. If you cannot observe this number, you can use the `TABLE_KEYS` column in the [`TABLE_STORAGE_STATS`](/information-schema/information-schema-table-storage-stats.md) table as another reference to calculate the sampling rate.
```

>

> > Normally, `STATS_META` is more credible than `TABLE_KEYS`. But after importing data through [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md), the result of `STATS_META` is `0`. To handle this situation, you can use `TABLE_KEYS` to calculate the sampling rate when the result of `STATS_META` is much smaller than the result of `TABLE_KEYS`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Normally, `STATS_META` is more credible than `TABLE_KEYS`. However, after importing data through the methods like [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md), the result of `STATS_META` is `0`. To handle this situation, you can use `TABLE_KEYS` to calculate the sampling rate when the result of `STATS_META` is much smaller than the result of `TABLE_KEYS`.
```

> The following syntax collects statistics for some columns in the `TableName` table:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following syntax collects statistical information for some columns in the `TableName` table:
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
ANALYZE TABLE TableName COLUMNS ColumnNameList [WITH NUM BUCKETS|TOPN|CMSKETCH DEPTH|CMSKETCH WIDTH]|[WITH NUM SAMPLES|WITH FLOATNUM SAMPLERATE];
```

> This syntax collects statistics on the specified columns and indexes, as well as the statistics on the columns involved in the extended statistics. If the number of columns in the table is large, the columns that require statistics might only be a small subset of the table. In this situation, this syntax can greatly reduce the stress of collecting statistics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This syntax collects statistical information on the specified columns and indexes, as well as the statistical information on the columns involved in the extended statistical information. If the number of columns in the table is large, the columns that require statistical information might only be a small subset of the table. In this situation, this syntax can greatly reduce the stress of collecting statistical information.
```

When the ratio of the number of modified rows to the total number of rows of `tbl` in a table is greater than `tidb_auto_analyze_ratio`, and the current time is between `tidb_auto_analyze_start_time` and `tidb_auto_analyze_end_time`, TiDB executes the `ANALYZE TABLE tbl` statement in the background to automatically update the statistics of this table.

> **Note:**
>

> > Currently, the automatic update does not record the configuration items input at manual `ANALYZE`. Therefore, when you use the `WITH` syntax to control the collecting behavior of `ANALYZE`, you need to manually to set scheduled tasks to collect statistics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Currently, the automatic update does not record the configuration items input at manual `ANALYZE`. Therefore, when you use the `WITH` syntax to control the collecting behavior of `ANALYZE`, you need to set scheduled tasks manually to collect statistics.
```
